Finished final project (#1)
xin-ke/Introduction-to-Probability-and-Data-with-R: Week5.Rmd

  labs(title = "Distribution of Population Percentages Above",
       x = "Percentage") +
  theme(axis.title.y =  element_blank(),
        axis.text.y = element_blank(),
        axis.ticks.y = element_blank())
```

The median percentage of the population of a given state that has had a wellness exam within 2 years is about 86% and there are no outliers.

```{r}  
insured_by_state <- insurance_exams %>% 
  group_by(X_state, hlthpln1) %>%
  summarise(num_insured = sum(count))

percentage_insured <- insured_by_state %>%
  group_by(X_state) %>%
  mutate(percent_insured = prop.table(num_insured) * 100) %>%
  filter(hlthpln1 == "Yes")

yes_percentages <- merge(percentage_exam, percentage_insured, by = "X_state")

ggplot(yes_percentages, aes(x = percent_insured, y = percent_exam, label = X_state)) + geom_point(color = "darkgrey") +   geom_text_repel(aes(label = X_state),
                 point.padding = NA,
                 size = 2.5) +
  labs(title = "Percentage of Population with Recent Checkup vs Percent with Insurance",
       x = "Percent of State Population with Health Insurance",
       y = "Percent of State Population with Checkup in Past 2 Years")
```

> There is a positive correlation between the percentage of the population of a given state with health insurance and the percentage of that population that has had a checkup within the past 2 years. However, the scatter along the y-axis suggests that there are regional differences in the percentage of the population that has had a wellness exam recently. For example, Alaska has much lower rates than other states with comparable levels of health insurance coverage.

Reviewer: There is a mention of a positive correlation here, but no R value is given in the chart or in the graph.

```{r}
bad_health <- phys_health %>%
  filter(physhlth != 0)

ggplot(bad_health, aes(x = physhlth, y = count)) +
  geom_bar(stat = "identity", width = 0.75) +
  labs(title = "Number of People with >0 Days of Poor Physical Health",
       x = "Number of Days",
       y = "Sample Population")
```

There are spikes in the data at multiples of 5 and 7, which makes sense given that people are likely to estimate the number of days they felt poorly by approximating it as multiples of a week if it was more than a few days. Without the peak at 30, the data is right skewed. 

```{r}
phys_ins_ordered <- phys_hlth_ins %>% 
  filter(physhlth != 0) %>%
  mutate(checkup_recently = fct_relevel(checkup_recently, "Yes", "No"))

ins_violin <- ggplot(phys_ins_ordered, aes(x = hlthpln1, y = physhlth)) 

ins_violin <- ins_violin +
  geom_violin(aes(color = "red"), fill = NA)

ins_hlth_violin <- ins_violin + 
  geom_violin(aes(x = checkup_recently, color = "blue"), fill = NA)

ins_hlth_violin +
  labs(title = "Distribution of Physical Health of Respondents by Insurance/Checkup Status",
       x = "Response",

>        y = "Number of Poor Physical Health Days",
>        color = NULL) +
>   scale_color_hue(labels = c("Insurance", "Checkup Recently"))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       y = "Number of Poor Physical Health Days in Last 30",
       color = NULL) +
  scale_color_hue(labels = c("Do you have insurance?", "Have you had a checkup with the past 2 years?"))
```
Labels could be a little clearer.
